{\rtf1\adeflang1025\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\adeff31507\deff0\stshfdbch31506\stshfloch31506\stshfhich31506\stshfbi31507\deflang1033\deflangfe1033\themelang1033\themelangfe0\themelangcs0{\fonttbl{\f2\fbidi \fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f2\fbidi \fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f39\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020f0502020204030204}Calibri;}{\f40\fbidi \fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 020b0609020204030204}Consolas;}{\flomajor\f31500\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\fdbmajor\f31501\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\fhimajor\f31502\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020f0302020204030204}Calibri Light;}
{\fbimajor\f31503\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\flominor\f31504\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\fdbminor\f31505\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\fhiminor\f31506\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020f0502020204030204}Calibri;}
{\fbiminor\f31507\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f61\fbidi \fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f62\fbidi \fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}
{\f64\fbidi \fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f65\fbidi \fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f66\fbidi \fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f67\fbidi \fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}
{\f68\fbidi \fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f69\fbidi \fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}{\f61\fbidi \fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f62\fbidi \fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}
{\f64\fbidi \fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f65\fbidi \fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f66\fbidi \fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f67\fbidi \fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}
{\f68\fbidi \fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f69\fbidi \fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}{\f431\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Calibri CE;}{\f432\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Calibri Cyr;}
{\f434\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Calibri Greek;}{\f435\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Calibri Tur;}{\f436\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Calibri (Hebrew);}{\f437\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Calibri (Arabic);}
{\f438\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Calibri Baltic;}{\f439\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Calibri (Vietnamese);}{\f441\fbidi \fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Consolas CE;}{\f442\fbidi \fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Consolas Cyr;}
{\f444\fbidi \fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Consolas Greek;}{\f445\fbidi \fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Consolas Tur;}{\f448\fbidi \fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Consolas Baltic;}{\f449\fbidi \fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Consolas (Vietnamese);}
{\flomajor\f31508\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\flomajor\f31509\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\flomajor\f31511\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\flomajor\f31512\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\flomajor\f31513\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\flomajor\f31514\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}
{\flomajor\f31515\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\flomajor\f31516\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\fdbmajor\f31518\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\fdbmajor\f31519\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\fdbmajor\f31521\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\fdbmajor\f31522\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\fdbmajor\f31523\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\fdbmajor\f31524\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\fdbmajor\f31525\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\fdbmajor\f31526\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\fhimajor\f31528\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Calibri Light CE;}{\fhimajor\f31529\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Calibri Light Cyr;}
{\fhimajor\f31531\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Calibri Light Greek;}{\fhimajor\f31532\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Calibri Light Tur;}{\fhimajor\f31533\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Calibri Light (Hebrew);}
{\fhimajor\f31534\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Calibri Light (Arabic);}{\fhimajor\f31535\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Calibri Light Baltic;}{\fhimajor\f31536\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Calibri Light (Vietnamese);}
{\fbimajor\f31538\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\fbimajor\f31539\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\fbimajor\f31541\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\fbimajor\f31542\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\fbimajor\f31543\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\fbimajor\f31544\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}
{\fbimajor\f31545\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\fbimajor\f31546\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\flominor\f31548\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\flominor\f31549\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\flominor\f31551\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\flominor\f31552\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\flominor\f31553\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\flominor\f31554\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\flominor\f31555\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\flominor\f31556\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\fdbminor\f31558\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\fdbminor\f31559\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\fdbminor\f31561\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\fdbminor\f31562\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\fdbminor\f31563\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\fdbminor\f31564\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\fdbminor\f31565\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\fdbminor\f31566\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}
{\fhiminor\f31568\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Calibri CE;}{\fhiminor\f31569\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Calibri Cyr;}{\fhiminor\f31571\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Calibri Greek;}{\fhiminor\f31572\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Calibri Tur;}
{\fhiminor\f31573\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Calibri (Hebrew);}{\fhiminor\f31574\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Calibri (Arabic);}{\fhiminor\f31575\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Calibri Baltic;}
{\fhiminor\f31576\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Calibri (Vietnamese);}{\fbiminor\f31578\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\fbiminor\f31579\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\fbiminor\f31581\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\fbiminor\f31582\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\fbiminor\f31583\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\fbiminor\f31584\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\fbiminor\f31585\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\fbiminor\f31586\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}
{\f41\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f42\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f44\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f45\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f46\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f47\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f48\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f49\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\*\defchp \f31506\fs22 }{\*\defpap 
\ql \li0\ri0\sa160\sl259\slmult1\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 }\noqfpromote {\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\sa160\sl259\slmult1\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 
\af31507\afs22\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \f31506\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 \sqformat \spriority0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden \sunhideused \spriority1 Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tblind0\tblindtype3\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv \ql \li0\ri0\sa160\sl259\slmult1
\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af31507\afs22\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \f31506\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext11 \ssemihidden \sunhideused Normal Table;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af31507\afs21\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \f40\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext15 \slink16 \sunhideused \styrsid9967752 Plain Text;}{\*\cs16 \additive \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs21 \ltrch\fcs0 \f40\fs21 \sbasedon10 \slink15 \slocked \styrsid9967752 Plain Text Char;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid5996469\rsid9967752\rsid13926061}
{\mmathPr\mmathFont34\mbrkBin0\mbrkBinSub0\msmallFrac0\mdispDef1\mlMargin0\mrMargin0\mdefJc1\mwrapIndent1440\mintLim0\mnaryLim1}{\info{\author word}{\operator word}{\creatim\yr2023\mo7\dy25\hr9\min52}{\revtim\yr2023\mo7\dy25\hr9\min52}{\version2}
{\edmins0}{\nofpages3}{\nofwords8021}{\nofchars45725}{\nofcharsws53639}{\vern107}}{\*\xmlnstbl {\xmlns1 http://schemas.microsoft.com/office/word/2003/wordml}}\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1501\margr1502\margt1440\margb1440\gutter0\ltrsect 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\trackmoves0\trackformatting1\donotembedsysfont1\relyonvml0\donotembedlingdata0\grfdocevents0\validatexml1\showplaceholdtext0\ignoremixedcontent0\saveinvalidxml0\showxmlerrors1\noxlattoyen
\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin360\dgvorigin360\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule
\rsidroot5996469\newtblstyruls\nogrowautofit\usenormstyforlist\noindnmbrts\felnbrelev\nocxsptable\indrlsweleven\noafcnsttbl\afelev\utinl\hwelev\spltpgpar\notcvasp\notbrkcnstfrctbl\notvatxbx\krnprsnet\cachedcolbal \nouicompat \fet0{\*\wgrffmtfilter 2450}
\nofeaturethrottle1\ilfomacatclnup0\ltrpar \sectd \ltrsect\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid9967752\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ltrpar
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9967752 \rtlch\fcs1 \af31507\afs21\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \f40\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f2\insrsid5730325\charrsid9967752  
\par  
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par INTERNATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATION UNION
\par TELECOMMUNICATION
\par STANDARDIZATION SECTOR
\par STUDY PERIOD 2017-2020
\par SG17-R61
\par 
\par 
\par STUDY GROUP 17
\par 
\par 
\par Original: English
\par Question(s):
\par 8/17
\par April 2020
\par REPORT
\par Source:
\par ITU-T Study Group 17
\par Title:
\par Determined new Recommendation ITU-T X.GSBDaaS: Guidelines on security of big data as a service for Big Data Service Providers
\par Purpose:
\par Admin
\par Contact:
\par TSB
\par Tel:
\par +41 22 730 6206
\par Fax:
\par +41 22 730 5853
\par E-mail:
\par tsbsg17@itu.int
\par 
\par 
\par Draft Recommendation ITU-T X. GSBDaaS
\par Guidelines on security of big data as a service for Big Data Service Providers
\par Summary
\par Big data as a service (BDaaS) is a cloud service category that provides cloud service customers with capabilities to collect, store, analyze, visualize and manage big data, as specified in ITU-T Y.3600.
\par With remarkable growth of data volumes and rapid development of big data business, big data infrastructure has become the central facility to provide BDaaS.
\par Consequently, significant security issues arise for BDaaS.
\par For example, open source big data software design sometimes fails to take security into consideration from the beginning.
\par New technologies introduced by big data analytics can also result in failure of traditional security protection measures.
\par Recommendation X.GSBDaaS analyses security challenges BDaaS faces, identifies security roles and responsibilities for provision of BDaaS, as well as a security framework for a big data infrastructure.
\par It also specifies security protection measures that should be satisfied for services and components related to BDaaS.
\par Keywords
\par big data as a service, security guidelines, security measures
\par 
\par Table of Contents
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par Draft Recommendation ITU-T X.GSBDaaS
\par Guidelines on security of big data as a service for big data service providers
\par 1
\par Scope
\par This Recommendation analyses security challenges faced by big data as a service (BDaaS) and provides guidelines for big data service providers (BDSP) to secure BDaaS.
\par It identifies security roles and responsibilities of BDaaS components and specifies a security framework for a big data infrastructure, including platforms, applications, analytics, interfaces, and the BDaaS ecosystem.
\par This Recommendation also specifies security protection measures that should be taken for activities or components related to BDaaS.
\par This Recommendation is a high level description of security requirements to BDaaS implementation which will focus on BDaaS.
\par As BDaaS involves big data infrastructure provider (BDIP) and big data application provider (BDAP), guidelines to both of them and detailed guidance on BDaaS implementation are out of scope for this document.
\par 
\par 
\par 2
\par References
\par The following ITU-T Recommendations and other references contain provisions which, through reference in this text, constitute provisions of this Recommendation.
\par At the time of publication, the editions indicated were valid.
\par All Recommendations and other references are subject to revision; users of this Recommendation are therefore encouraged to investigate the possibility of applying the most recent edition of the Recommendations and other references listed below.
\par A list of the currently valid ITU-T Recommendations is regularly published.
\par The reference to a document within this Recommendation does not give it, as a stand alone document, the status of a Recommendation.
\par [ITU-T X.1601]
\par Recommendation ITU-T X.1601 (2015), Security framework for cloud computing.
\par [ITU-T X.1631]
\par Recommendation ITU-T X.1631 (2015), Information technology - Security techniques - Code of practice for information security controls based on ISO/IEC 27002 for cloud services.
\par [ITU-T X.1641]
\par Recommendation ITU-T X.1641 (2016), Guidelines for cloud service customer data security
\par [ITU-T Y.3600]
\par Recommendation ITU-T Y.3600 (2015), Big data \endash  Cloud computing based requirements and capabilities.
\par [ITU-T Y.3602]
\par Recommendation ITU-T Y.3602 (2018), Big Data \endash  Functional requirements for data provenance
\par [ITU-T Y.3603]
\par Recommendation ITU-T Y.3603 (2019), Big Data \endash  Requirements and conceptual model of metadata for data catalog
\par 3
\par Definitions
\par 3.1
\par Terms defined elsewhere
\par This Recommendation uses the following terms defined elsewhere:
\par 3.1.1
\par big data [ITU-T Y.3600]: A paradigm for enabling the collection, storage, management, analysis and visualization, potentially under real time constraints, of extensive datasets with heterogeneous characteristics.
\par NOTE \endash  Examples of datasets characteristics include high volume, high velocity, high variety, etc.
\par 3.1.2
\par big data as a service (BDaaS) [ITU-T Y.3600]: A cloud service category in which the capabilities provided to the cloud service customer are the ability to collect, store, analyze, visualize and manage data using big data.
\par 3.1.3     big data provenance [ITU-T Y.3602]: Information that records the historical path of data according to the data lifecycle operations in a big data ecosystem.
\par 3.1.4
\par cloud computing [b-ITU-T Y.3500]: Paradigm for enabling network access to a scalable and elastic pool of shareable physical or virtual resources with self service provisioning and administration on demand.
\par 3.1.5
\par cloud service [b-ITU-T Y.3500]: One or more capabilities offered via cloud computing invoked using a defined interface.
\par 3.1.6
\par metadata [b-ITU-T M.3030]: Data that describes other data.
\par 3.1.7
\par security challenge [ITU-T X.1601]: A security "difficulty" other than a direct security threat arising from the nature and operating environment of cloud services, including "indirect" threats.
\par 3.1.8
\par threat [b-ISO/IEC 27000]: Potential cause of an unwanted incident, which can result in harm to a system or organization.
\par 3.1.9
\par vulnerability [b-NIST SP 800-30]: Weakness in an information system, system security procedures, internal controls, or implementation that could be exploited by a threat source.
\par 3.2
\par Terms defined in this Recommendation
\par This Recommendation defines the following terms:
\par 3.2.1
\par data asset: electronically recorded data resource, owned or controlled by an organization.
\par 4
\par Abbreviations and acronyms
\par This Recommendation uses the following abbreviations and acronyms:
\par API
\par Application Programming Interface
\par ABAC
\par Attribute Based Access Control
\par BDaaS
\par Big Data as a Service
\par BDAP
\par Big Data Application Provider
\par BDIP
\par Big Data Infrastructure Provider
\par BDSN
\par Big Data Service Partners
\par BDSP
\par Big Data Service Provider
\par BDSU
\par Big Data Service User
\par CSC
\par Cloud Service Customer
\par DP
\par Data Provider
\par IT
\par Information Technology
\par PII
\par Personally Identifiable Information
\par PKI
\par Public Key Infrastructure
\par SAML
\par Security Assertion Markup Language
\par SDK
\par Software Development Kit
\par SSL
\par Secure Sockets Layer
\par TLS
\par Transport Layer Security
\par USB
\par Universal Serial Bus
\par 5
\par Conventions
\par In this Recommendation:
\par The keywords "is required to" indicate a requirement which must be strictly followed and from which no deviation is permitted, if conformance to this Recommendation is to be claimed.
\par 
\par The keywords "is recommended" indicate a requirement which is recommended but which is not absolutely required.
\par Thus, this requirement need not be present to claim conformance.
\par 
\par The keywords "is prohibited from" indicate a requirement which must be strictly followed and from which no deviation is permitted, if conformance to this Recommendation is to be claimed.
\par 
\par The keywords "can optionally" indicate an optional requirement which is permissible, without implying any sense of being recommended.
\par This term is not intended to imply that the vendor\rquote s implementation must provide the option, and the feature can be optionally enabled by the network operator/service provider.
\par Rather, it means the vendor may optionally provide the feature and still claim conformance with the specification.
\par 6
\par Security threats and challenges to big data as a service
\par This clause describes security threats and challenges to Big Data as a Service (BDaaS).
\par Cloud computing based BDaaS is defined in [ITU-T Y.3600].
\par Security challenges relevant to cloud computing environments as described in Chapter 8 of [ITU-T X.1601] should be taken into consideration for BDaaS.
\par This Recommendation, then, describ
es security threats and challenges to specific capabilities and services of BDaaS, that is, Big Data Platform as a Service and Big Data related Software as a Service (recognizing that the BDaaS ecosystem includes DPs, BDAPs and BDIPs), including:
\par vulnerabilities of big data infrastructure and failure of security measures;
\par storage and audit problems incurred by unstructured data;
\par security and regulation of interface between applications, platforms and service flow;
\par other security concerns, e.g., trust, authentication and visualization.
\par Figure 6-1 shows an architecture of BDaaS security challenges
\par .
\par 
\par 
\par Figure 6-1 \endash  Big data as a service security challenges
\par 6.1
\par Security challenges to a big data infrastructure
\par Big data infrastructure may consist of various components sourced either commercially or through open source.
\par The design of some of these components may fail to take security into consideration from the beginning, causing potential security risks, including:
\par insecure source code and lack of security mechanisms in open source components;
\par open and inter domain platform characteristics which blur traditional security boundaries, causing failure of boundary based protection measures; and,
\par lack of appropriate authentication and access control mechanisms for different roles may lead to abuse.
\par 6.2
\par Security challenges to big data applications
\par A big data infrastructure integrates a variety of highly centralized applications with complicated service patterns.
\par Security challenges to big data applications include:
\par application programming interfaces (APIs), Software Development Kits (SDKs) and interfaces between applications may lack security verification and transmission control; and
\par execution of user applications needs to be traced, audited and located to guarantee business logic security.
\par 6.3
\par Security challenges to data
\par Big data infrastructure and applications deal with massive quantities of data.
\par Within big data ecosystem, data types include structured, semi structured and unstructured data.
\par Structured data are often stored in databases which may be organized in different models, such as relational model, document model, key value model, graph model etc.
\par Semi structured data does not conform to the formal structure of data models but contain tags or markers to identify data.
\par And unstructured data do not have a pre defined data model and are not organized in any defined manner.
\par Within all data types data can exist in different formats, such as text, spreadsheet, video, audio, image, map, etc.
\par (see [ITU-T Y.3600]).
\par That data is used in storage, analysis, calculation and other data service phases.
\par Security challenges to data include:
\par requirement of security measures (including access controls) to ensure data confidentiality, while still supporting efficient data operation;
\par audit of unstructured data;
\par personal privacy information may be leaked if data is open or shared;
\par metadata has the same characteristics as data published on a web and traditional security measures described in [ITU-T X.1601] can be applied;
\par Security challenges to big data provenance handling include: contaminated or maliciously manipulated records throughout the chain of provenance processing, unauthorized entities in provenance data processing or exchange, unauthentic cod
es of processing for the data provenance, as well as security challenges to the provenance data.
\par 6.4
\par Security challenges to big data as a service ecosystem
\par According to [ITU-T Y.3600], BDaaS ecosystem consists of roles and sub roles played by different parties/components providing and consuming big data services.
\par BDaaS ecosystem is required to plan, design and implement security measures in construction, operation, auditing and other phases of service provenance.
\par Security challenges to big data services include:
\par continuous monitoring of user action, network condition, resource status, etc. to cope with changing threats;
\par emerging new threat vectors and lack of potential protection mechanisms;
\par inability to establish trust between various actors, including data owners and devices (to collect data);
\par security of virtualization instantiation, e.g., security configuration and virtual image integrity;
\par A big data ecosystem may consist of a complicated supply chain.
\par Even a contractor who is not directly contracted with an organization may affect its business continuity.
\par Risks related to the supply chain should be analyzed and necessary measure should be taken, including security measures described in [ISO/IEC 27000] [ISO/IEC 28000].
\par 
\par 7
\par High level concepts of big data as a service security consideration and role of BDSP
\par [ITU-T Y.3600] specifies an architecture of big data technology that is general, multi level and made up of logical function components.
\par Based on this architecture, big data service security capabilities cover both system security and data security.
\par From system security perspective,  BDaaS security requirements cover capabilities of each related function module of (1) big data infrastructure, (2) big data application management, (3) interf
ace security, as well as (4) operation and maintenance of big data platform security (the BDaaS ecosystem).
\par In particular, [ITU-T Y.3600] describes BDaaS in two key components:
\par Big data infrastructure provider (BDIP): BDIP can use the cloud services of c
loud infrastructure capability types such as compute as a service, data storage as a service, infrastructure as a service and network as a service to perform big data services for data collection, data processing, data management.
\par 
\par Big data application provider (BDAP): BDAP to perform data analysis, visualization and other big data applications.
\par 
\par From data security perspective, security requirements cover each data activity in the process of big data service business development.
\par Moreover, big data service security capabilities also include requirements for metadata security and data supply chain security.
\par From the system view of BDaaS, [ITU-T Y.3600] identifies the system context including roles and activities as well as data and service flows.
\par 
\par In terms of roles [ITU-T Y.3600], BDaaS services are offered by big data service provider (BDSP) which is responsible to ensure security of BDaaS and reduce risks.
\par It is recommended for BDSP (BDIP and BDAP) to consider both system security and data security to perform BDaaS activities.
\par 8
\par Security measures of big data as a service
\par 8.1
\par Security measures for a big data infrastructure
\par 8.1.1
\par System asset security
\par 8.1.1.1
\par General requirements
\par Big data service providers (BDSPs) shall:
\par establish system asset security management strategies, clarify targets and principles of system asset security;
\par establish construction and operation management policies and procedures of system assets, including planning, designing, purchasing, developing, operating, maintaining and scrapping;
\par establish a system asset register mechanism, develop a system asset list, specify the security responsibility subject and related parties of system assets, and regularly maintain system asset information;
\par establish and implement system asset classification and label procedures;
\par perform regular audit and update on information technology (IT) assets and security management policies.
\par 8.1.1.2
\par Enhancement requirements
\par BDSPs should:
\par identify asset management controls available, such as those defined in [ITU-T X.1631], to perform component inventory and registration, auditing, and monitoring of system assets.
\par establish asset risk evaluation procedures for the big data system.
\par For example, implementing a process to identify product or service components that are critical for maintaining functionality and therefore require increased attention and scrutiny;
\par establish security assessment procedures for supply chain, such as those defined in [ISO/IEC 27037-3].
\par This includes assessing risks of components no longer being available, systematic repeatable vulnerability response processes, etc.
\par 8.1.2
\par Data asset security
\par 8.1.2.1
\par General requirements
\par BDSPs shall:
\par establish data asset security management strategies, clarify targets and principles of data asset security management;
\par establish security management mechanisms and procedures covering data asset life cycle;
\par establish data asset classification and gradation methods and operation guidance according to the value and significance of data assets;
\par establish change approval mechanisms for data classification and gradation strategies, procedures, methods, and operation guidance;
\par establish security specifications, management mechanisms and procedures for data asset confidentiality, integrity and availability, (e.g., password strategy, key management);
\par establish a data asset list, identify the data security responsibility subject and relevant parties;
\par perform regular audit and update on data asset security management strategies and relevant procedures.
\par 8.1.2.2
\par Enhancement requirements
\par BDSPs should:
\par establish security governance principles and data integration policies for all kinds of internal and external data resources;
\par establish corresponding label, multi level access control, data encryption and decryption, data desensitization and other security strategies in accordance with data asset sensitivity.
\par 8.1.3
\par Data supply chain process security
\par 8.1.3.1
\par General requirements
\par BDSPs shall:
\par clarify objectives, principles and scope of data supply chain security management;
\par develop data supply chain security management policies and procedures, including security management criteria of data supply chain participants;
\par specify purposes, supply patterns and participants\rquote  security responsibilities for data in the data supply chain by cooperation agreements;
\par register equipment and applications of data acquisition and dissemination, record and audit data acquisition and dissemination behaviours;
\par audit data consumption behaviours of data supply chain participants;
\par establish a data source normalization mechanism and interface specification in the data supply chain, log and audit important operations;
\par establish organizational structure of supply chain operation and management, supply chain main data model, data quality processing mechanism and data traceability mechanism;
\par clarify data supply chain security responsibilities, ensure authenticity and availability of related data services;
\par ensure that security measures are deployed in data supply processes, e.g., data exchange and data use;
\par establish data supply chain catalogues and data source data dictionaries, identify the party responsible for data supply process security.
\par ensure trustworthiness of record throughout the chain of provenance processing;
\par clarify responsible entities for the data provenance processing;
\par implement authentication mechanisms to ensure authenticity of entities in the chain of processing and exchange of the provenance data;
\par ensure authenticity of codes for the data provenance and keep authenticity through code updates;
\par ensure the confidentiality, integrity and availability of the provenance data, and such security requirements are described in [ITU-T X.1601].
\par 8.1.3.2
\par Enhancement requirements
\par BDSPs should:
\par specify data service capability requirements for different data supply chain participants according to their respective roles in the ecosystem of the data business chain;
\par regularly examine data security management capability of data supply chain participants, and evaluate security risk related to data supply chain participants;
\par regularly evaluate security risk of whole life cycle of data supply chain.
\par 8.1.4
\par Metadata security
\par Relevant Cloud Service Customer (CSC) data security requirements, as described in [ITU-T X.1641], should be taken into consideration.
\par 8.1.4.1
\par General requirements
\par BDSPs shall:
\par establish data dictionaries and relevant management practices according to enterprise architecture and data services, including data domain, field type, table structure, as well as logical and physical storage mode;
\par establish security metadata and relevant management practices according to big data security architecture, including password policy, authority list and authorization specifications;
\par establish metadata access control strategy, specify metadata roles and authorization control mechanisms;
\par establish metadata operation audit procedures.
\par 8.1.4.2
\par Enhancement requirements
\par BDSPs should:
\par build metadata management systems to perform unification management of big data service metadata;
\par establish an automatic grading mechanism for metadata security attributes according to the classification and grading strategy of assets;
\par establish a label strategy, including the binding of data and data owner, according to metadata security requirements.
\par 8.2
\par Security measures for big data applications
\par 8.2.1
\par Platform resource acquisition
\par 8.2.1.1
\par General requirements
\par BDSPs shall:
\par ensure that big data service users are aware and notified of system assets to be accessed by an application, such as network connection, location service, and hardware resource list like a universal serial bus (USB) and Bluetooth;
\par ensure that big data service users are aware and notified of system sensitive data assets to be accessed by an application, such as address book, system logs and other sensitive information sources;
\par ensure that an application requesting access to resources has sufficient reason to visit, such as specified in documents provided by the application developer.
\par 8.2.1.2
\par Enhanced requirements
\par BDSPs should:
\par ensure that an application limits unnecessary internal and external network communications or user initiated network communications based on business requirements.
\par 8.2.2
\par Authorization and access control
\par 8.2.2.1
\par General requirements
\par BDSPs shall:
\par establish physical and logical access authorization granularity, specification and control mechanism of big data applications, to ensure that accesses to big data service related data and system assets are properly authorized;
\par set up authorization and access control measures based on asset management strategies and asset labels, security attributes, to ensure that a big data application has the abilities of fine grained access control management;
\par develop an information flow control strategy to control data import, export and sharing operations of the big data infrastructure between different big data applications or the big data application and external IT system;
\par implement properly approved authorization of data and system asset access of individuals, groups, roles, devices and applications related to big data services;
\par provide ability of an authorization access strategy self defined by the user based on service requirements, and audit authority granted by each user based o
n service requirements, to ensure that its access is limited to the minimum range that meets the service scenario requirements.
\par 8.2.2.2
\par Enhanced requirements
\par BDSPs should:
\par monitor and control remote access sessions automatically to detect network attacks and ensure realization of remote access policy;
\par provide an attribute based access control (ABAC) engine and functions of authorization management and access control oriented to data object, as well as functions like policy administration point, policy 
decision point, policy enforcement point and policy access point.
\par 8.2.3
\par Application behavior monitoring
\par 8.2.3.1
\par General requirements
\par BDSPs shall:
\par establish strategies and procedures of big data application behavior monitoring covering the whole data life cycle;
\par support users to customize monitoring rules that can support monitoring and reporting of anomalous operations on critical data;
\par have ability to record, tally and analyze abnormal behavior information about the application.
\par 8.2.3.2
\par Enhanced requirements
\par BDSPs should:
\par establish application behavior monitoring management mechanisms oriented to regulators and users with specific requirements, and provide an online monitoring interface after authorization;
\par establish a platform to record and analyze big data application behavior , and provide security analysis capabilities providing user behavior identification and extraction components or interfaces for big data service communication protocols;
\par provide behavior monitoring specification systems and operation guidelines.
\par 8.2.4
\par Application security strategies and procedures
\par BDSPs shall:
\par establish release management policy of big data service applications, clarify in written authorization procedure and responsibilities of relevant roles \endash author
ization document should elaborate name, version, source, developer, function, deployment location, security evaluation result and specific security requirements of applications;
\par specify protection of data transmission between applications and big data inf
rastructure, as well as other authentic IT products, e.g., apply security schemes like secure sockets layer (SSL), transport layer security (TLS) to encrypt sensitive data in transmission;
\par check electronic signatures of application installation packages and update packages;
\par ensure that an application can query the current version of running software either autonomously or utilizing relevant big data infrastructure functions;
\par ensure that an application can handle predictable error operations without affecting the normal work of big data ecosystems;
\par establish big data application update and patch management policy, ensure that applications will check for updates and install component patches;
\par follow security design specifications of  big data application, avoid entries that violate or bypass security rules and avoid unspecified entries;
\par design mechanisms to prevent vulnerability exploitation of big data application, e.g., avoid allocating memory space that has both write and execute permissions, allocate 
memory space with write and execute permissions only for just in time compilation functions.
\par 8.2.5
\par Credential storage
\par 8.2.5.1
\par General requirements
\par BDSPs shall:
\par specify an application identity credential persistent storage method, including using a platform function instead of storage to store all identity credentials securely or the application itself realizes the function of identity credential secure storage;

\par clarify credential information of an application, e.g., key, public key infrastructure (PKI), private key or password;
\par clarify security protection methods and control measures to collect, store, and use personally identifiable information (PII);
\par establish an evaluation process for credential storage method of an application to ensure that it meets security strategies and procedure requirements of big data service systems.
\par 8.2.5.2
\par Enhanced requirements
\par BDSPs should:
\par make sure purpose and methods of identity credential persistent storage are listed in security specification documents.
\par 8.2.6
\par Identity and authentication
\par 8.2.6.1
\par General requirements
\par BDSPs shall:
\par offer capability to manage user identity, automatically to determine user identity information in big data applications to ensure mapping relations between user identification and application layer authorization information;
\par authenticate user identity using more than one authentication technique for operation of important data or important modules;
\par display potentially useful usage information of big data system services available to the public, e.g., display of the last login date and time or the most recent login location.
\par 8.2.6.2
\par Enhanced requirements
\par BDSPs should:
\par authenticate user identity using more than one authentication technique in all applications for a user in a key position with at least one technique based on a biometric or digital certificate method;
\par use federation like security assertion markup language (SAML) to specify identity and role, add security and privacy requirements, thus supporting multiple identities to access big data services.
\par 8.2.7
\par Default configuration security
\par BDSPs shall:
\par ensure, when using default identity credentials or when no identity credential is configured, that an application can only provide essential functions for configuring a new
 identity, e.g., if using a default password to log in, a user is only permitted to enter the password modification interface and the application should not provide any other function until the default password is changed;
\par for applications, provide a more
 secure functional module and enable security configurations of a higher security level in default installation mode, e.g., if an application can provide password login module and digital certificate module at the same time, in case of default installatio
n mode, the application chooses to install the digital certificate module;
\par limit default access permissions for default user of the application, e.g., allow a user with non root minimum permission to start a program by default;
\par ensure that an application starts the user account security configuration function by default, including password length, password complexity, service life limit and account lock strategy;
\par ensure initiation of necessary log audit functions, e.g., component installation update or parameter modification, when an application is installed in default configuration.
\par 8.2.8
\par Data import and export
\par 8.2.8.1
\par General requirements
\par BDSPs shall:
\par formulate data import and export strategies and procedures by taking into account factors such as storage capacity, data volume growth speed, business requirement, storage medium and performance, to prevent important data loss and reduce data loss damage;

\par establish data export management strategies and mechanisms, data import and export security evaluation mechanisms and an authorization approval process;
\par establish identification specifications for an exported data storage medium \endash  the identification shall conform to unified naming rules, indicate medium numbers, export time, valid term and other important information;
\par provide various data import and export methods of multi granularity, e.g., granularity of database, model and user specified object;
\par perform imported and exported data result inspection, ensure data integrity and validity;
\par record data import and export operating information, e.g., operation information, operation cycle, medium number, medium volume, transfer and storage situation, and relevant change recordation;
\par adopt encryption mechanisms, access control and other technical measures to ensure  confidentiality, integrity and availability of exported data;
\par regularly verify integrity and availability of exported data.
\par 8.2.8.2
\par Enhancement requirements
\par BDSPs should:
\par capture index parameter calculation basis of automatic data backup management, including mean time to failure, mean time to restore and mean time between failures, configure corresponding automatic data import and export software;
\par possess remote data online import and export ability, regularly and semi automatically perform user data remote storage;
\par automatically back up data recombination and compression in accordance with data popularity, etc., ensure availability of massive data;
\par possess automatic compression storage function for user backup data according to data backup and restore frequency.
\par 8.3
\par Security measures for interface
\par 8.3.1
\par General requirements
\par BDSPs shall:
\par provide system administrator, security administrator, security auditor and other user role interfaces and regulatory role interfaces;
\par specify security requirements and security control measures for each role interface, e.g., identity authentication, authorization access, signature, time stamp and security protocol;
\par specify security restrictions for using each class of interface, such as remote connections whose functions and permissions are limited;
\par clarify service interface security specifications, including interface name, interface parameters and interface security requirements \endash  the specifications provide restrictions on insecure input parameters and have ability to handle exceptions;

\par provide capability to audit interface access behaviours and configurable data service interfaces;
\par adopt security mechanisms, such as secure channel or encrypted transfer, to secure cross domain security interfaces.
\par 8.3.2
\par Enhanced requirements
\par BDSPs should:
\par support audit requirements in the process of interface access, and provide necessary audit and regulatory functions for interface access;
\par adopt encryption transmission method for interface transmission across security domains in the system;
\par perform essential automatic monitoring and processing on interface access.
\par 8.4
\par Security measures for big data as a service ecosystem
\par 8.4.1
\par Security planning
\par Security planning stage is further divided into three sub stages:
\par requirement analysis: at which business and security requirements are identified, clarified and defined.
\par solution design: at which security solution(s) are designed.
\par solution evaluation: at which security solution(s) are evaluated.
\par After this sub stage, the BDSP can either go to security construction stage for implementation or back to solution design sub stage for adjustment or improvement.
\par 8.4.1.1
\par Requirement analysis
\par 8.4.1.1.1
\par General requirements
\par BDSPs shall:
\par determine scope of big data service business activities and corresponding security baseline requirements of a big data infrastructure;
\par identify specific security threats, vulnerabilities and security risks confronted by a big data infrastructure then clarify technical and management measures for  big data services;
\par identify security requirement implementation priorities for the big data infrastructure.
\par 8.4.1.1.2
\par Enhanced requirements
\par BDSPs should:
\par establish security requirement analysis and review management procedure and ensure that security requirements of a big data infrastructure have integrity and are reasonable.
\par 8.4.1.2
\par Solution design
\par 8.4.1.2.1
\par General requirements
\par BDSPs shall:
\par create security technical specifications of a big data infrastructure and describe security function, interface and parameters clearly.
\par 8.4.1.2.2
\par Enhanced requirements
\par BDSPs should:
\par demonstrate effectiveness of security technical specifications and ensure that security mechanism cannot be bypassed in implementation mechanism;
\par update security solution in a timely fashion if requirements change or technology improves until solution evaluation is completed.
\par 8.4.1.3
\par Solution evaluation
\par 8.4.1.3.1
\par General requirements
\par BDSPs shall:
\par review security proposal for a big data infrastructure regularly, including security architecture and security baselines, while ensuring security requirements are fulfilled.
\par 8.4.1.3.2
\par Enhanced requirements
\par BDSPs should:
\par establish security evaluation system and determine a set of key evaluation factors.
\par 8.4.2
\par Security construction
\par 8.4.2.1
\par Security architecture
\par 8.4.2.1.1
\par General requirements
\par BDSPs shall:
\par establish big data service security architecture and ensure validity of design process and realization of big data security services as described in the security architecture;
\par ensure that security domain described in security architecture documents is consistent with big data application and security functional architecture requirements;
\par ensure that security architecture documents describe security function initialization process in big data applications and on the big data infrastructure, thus providing security of initialization of the platform and applications.
\par 8.4.2.1.2
\par Enhancement requirements
\par BDSPs should:
\par ensure that information in security architecture description documents is sufficient to certify that big data service security function is able to protect itself from tampering by untrusted subjects;
\par ensure that security architecture description documents provide sufficient analysis to prove 
that designed mechanism of big data service security function cannot be bypassed, and the provided security functions of big data system have been correctly realized.
\par 8.4.2.2
\par Functional specification
\par 8.4.2.2.1
\par General requirements
\par BDSPs shall:
\par provide functional specifications that are accurate and complete, and clarify mapping between functional specifications and big data service security function requirements;
\par ensure that the provided functional specification integrally describes big data service security functions, and clarifies involved data supply chain relationship and service components;
\par ensure that the provided functional specification describes design objective and employment method of all big data service security function application interfaces and provides all related parameters of the security function interfaces.
\par 8.4.2.3
\par Security deployment
\par 8.4.2.3.1General requirements
\par BDSPs shall:
\par establish security delivery process for application delivery from developers to big data service system;
\par describe controlled function and authority of each role of big data service in security deployment process;
\par describe available functions and interfaces for each role of big data service, indicate a security value appropriately, specially for all security parameters controlled by users;
\par describe every user role of big data service, ensure that security policies described in security policies and specifications that are necessary for operating environment security are sufficiently realized.
\par 8.4.2.4
\par Boundary protection
\par 8.4.2.4.1
\par General requirements
\par BDSPs shall:
\par plan security domain and security defense boundary in consistence with the security level, including security control policies and management policies;
\par plan security domain and security defense boundary related to business control and application isolation, including security control policies and management policies;
\par deploy security protection facilities at security domain boundary, to protect from and detect abnormal incidents, potential violation, etc.;
\par adopt comparative strict security defense mechanisms between security domains, e.g., identity authentication, connection management, network access control security policy, intrusion prevention, information filtering and boundary integrity check;
\par develop management policy of security defense facility update and adopt necessary methods to ensure implementation of the policy.
\par 8.4.2.4.2
\par Enhancement requirements
\par BDSPs should:
\par provide personalized multi tenant boundary protection measures and mechanisms;
\par provide specification of a security domain or subdomain, a data isolation mechanism between security domains and an access control mechanism for authorized users or roles.
\par 8.4.2.5
\par Document management
\par 8.4.2.5.1
\par General requirements
\par BDSPs shall:
\par implement document management in a big data service system.
\par Scope of document management includes organizational strategies, rules and policies, system schemes and implementation manuals;
\par determine creation, review, approval, release and archival processes for documents, clarifying corresponding security responsibilities in each document management process;
\par determine storage medium and time requirements for documents, ensuring their availability and completeness;
\par regularly review, update, approve and release documents, ensuring that users are updated about their latest versions;
\par assign responsible agencies to establish and maintain document management system, and put them in charge of document version change maintenance;
\par manage classification of system documents.
\par 8.4.2.5.2
\par Enhancement requirements
\par BDSPs should:
\par provide a platform to manage documents within a service provider, assigning different viewing permissions according to different roles;
\par ensure necessary update and version identification of corresponding documents when updating products or services.
\par 8.4.3
\par Security operation
\par 8.4.3.1
\par System configuration management
\par 8.4.3.1.1
\par General requirements
\par BDSPs shall:
\par formulate and perform system configuration management procedures, e
stablish system configuration management organization structure, clarify roles and responsibilities of configuration managers, e.g., system administrators, system operators, system security officers, system auditors, database administrators and other role
s;
\par in accordance with business requirements and management objects, stipulate approval, operation and audit processes for configuration management, e.g., host configuration items, network configuration items, application service modules and other system co
nfiguration identifications, content configurations and relevant change activities;
\par in accordance with evaluation results, formulate a big data system security function baseline configuration list and daily configuration check content list, performing nec
essary configuration for big data system security functions according to the principle of least privilege;
\par in accordance with big data service level agreement, configure IT product parameters in big data system, record and maintain current security configuration information about the big data system;
\par in accordance with use strategies, restrict strategies and authorization policies of purchased software, forbid or restrict software from using particular functions, ports, protocols or services of big data system;
\par clarify a controlled configuration list that requires regular change, and regularly update important configuration items of big data system related to information security, e.g., virus database, intrusion detection rule database, firewall rule data
base and vulnerability database;
\par review submitted changes to big data system controlled configurations, approve or reject according to security impact analysis results, record change decisions;
\par restrict system developers and integrators from directly changing big data system, relevant hardware, software and firmware in production environment, audit configuration and change events;
\par before perform configuration or change, test, validate and record controlled configuration and change items, and analyze system change items to estimate its potential impact on big data service security;
\par monitor configuration setting parameter changes, and reasonably enable monitor, warn, defense and other functions of security equipment;
\par provide relevant response measures to deal with unauthorized changes, including change related personnel, recover established configuration or interrupt affected information system operation in extreme situations.
\par 
\par 8.4.3.1.2
\par Enhancement requirements
\par BDSPs should:
\par perform configuration man
agement effect risk evaluation regularly or at the time when significant change occurs to business or system architecture, revise baseline configuration requirements and configuration contents in accordance with evaluation results, e.g., perform risk eval
uation and revise configuration requirements at least once a year;
\par evaluate risk evaluation strategy and its effects regularly or at the time when significant change occurs to business or system architecture; according to evaluation results, revise system 
configuration management procedures, adjust organization management structure, configure management process, etc.;
\par regularly review big data system configurations, to identify unnecessary or insecure functions, ports, protocols or service configuration items;
\par employ system configuration tools or automatic mechanisms to centralized management, application and verification of parameters of configuration items;
\par be able to note in real time changes to big data infrastructures and virtual resource status, possess automatic adjustment ability for system service security strategy configuration.
\par 8.4.3.2
\par Employment of third party services
\par 8.4.3.2.1
\par General requirements
\par BDSPs shall:
\par establish security management policy for third party service partners;
\par establish an admittance, assessment and scoring mechanism for third party service providers;
\par sign service component cooperation agreements with third party service providers, clarify their obligations and responsibilities, e.g., avoid too much involvement of third party service providers in security operation of a big data system;
\par ensure third party service components understand information security measures of the big data system, correctly implement required security measures and pass test of third party evaluation agencies;
\par establish component employment security policies with third party service providers, clarify employment conditions and the scope of access by external components;
\par adopt necessary technical or security management measures to ensure that big data users are authorized and enabled to access system and data resources via external service components;
\par audit information, such as users, intended and actual operations of external service components, and ensure traceability of big data services.
\par 8.4.3.2.2
\par Enhancement requirements
\par BDSPs should:
\par evaluate qualifications and security capabilities of third party service providers, and establish a cooperative emergency response mechanism with external service component providers;
\par ensure that external service components realize security measures required by information security strategy and security plan of a big data system correctly, and pass test of third party evaluation agencies;
\par restrict use of sensitive data resources in external service components by authorized personnel, including storage medium, data files, and other data resources controlled by BDSPs.
\par 8.4.3.3
\par Information technology supply chain security
\par 8.4.3.3.1
\par General requirements
\par BDSPs shall:
\par establish IT supply chain security policies and procedures, clarify filtering mechanism, filtering index and evaluation method;
\par clarify roles and operations of IT supply chain participants related to data acquisition and system services;
\par adopt necessary technical and management measures for substitution of supply chain, ensure effective response if supply chain incidents occur.
\par 8.4.3.3.2
\par Enhancement requirements
\par BDSPs should:
\par establish a data aggregation information chain model, including data extraction, integration and optimization of supply chain data source;
\par establish an examination and evaluation mechanism for supply chain, perform regular risk evaluation and security assessment, e.g., at least once a year;
\par establish a data supply chain quality management and evaluation feedback mechanism.
\par 8.4.3.4
\par System patch management
\par 8.4.3.4.1
\par General requirements
\par BDSPs shall:
\par establish patch management procedures, including downloading, testing, analysis, distribution, installation, archiving and other processes and content, ensure normalized system patch management;
\par set up a patch management team, keep up with vulnerability disclosure information and responses to security events, perform patch downloading, testing, installation and other works according to an appropriate schedule;
\par establish a system patch distribution and management framework, clarify patch downloading and update mechanisms, e.g., patch management triggered by system security events, or periodically by set interval;
\par possess patch compatibility testing ability before patch deployment and installation, record issues during patch update process;
\par possess patch check function, verify that patch is installed successfully.
\par 8.4.3.4.2
\par Enhancement requirements
\par BDSPs should:
\par establish a patch management system, update system and install patches via software.
\par 8.4.3.5
\par Business continuity plan
\par 8.4.3.5.1
\par General requirements
\par BDSPs shall:
\par regularly evaluate risks brought by business continuity, and inform users about relevant risks;
\par formulate and implement an appropriate disaster backup plan in accordance with business strategic goals, clarifying level, disaster recovery requirement and recovery strategy of system disaster recovery abilities;
\par regularly perform business impact analysis and risk evaluation, implement relevant business continuity training.
\par 8.4.3.5.2
\par Enhancement requirements
\par BDSPs should:
\par regularly perform a system switching experiment for relevant infrastructures of involved big data service, optimize data and system resource backup schemes according to actual requirements;
\par perform a business continuity plan drill to examine integrity, operability and effectiveness of the business continuity plan, verify business continuity and system asset availability.
\par 8.4.4
\par Security audit
\par BDSPs should carry out regular security audits over the whole BDaaS ecosystem.
\par Audit can be executed by an internal independent audit team or third party auditors (acting as big data service partners (BDSNs)).
\par Audit results should be appropriately visible to BDSUs.
\par 8.4.4.1
\par Audit strategy management
\par 8.4.4.1.1
\par General requirements
\par BDSPs shall:
\par formulate audit strategies and procedures covering big data system behavior and big data service data activities, including audit target, audit object, audit operation, audit method, audit fre
quency, relevant roles and responsibilities, management commitment, the participant coordination of supply chain and compliance analysis;
\par formulate a change management process for audit strategies and procedures, record in detail the start stop status of 
audit strategies and procedures, change performance policy, change description, etc., regularly review and update audit strategies and procedures;
\par clarify privileges and responsibilities of users in audit strategies and procedures, establish relevant privilege grant procedure of audit strategies and procedures, audit strategy performance and audit data management roles.
\par 8.4.4.1.2
\par Enhancement requirements
\par BDSPs should:
\par establish data supply chain security audit procedures and coordination mechanisms, ensure traceability of audit events;
\par regularly check and evaluate implementation of audit strategies and procedures;
\par set up independent system security auditors, who should conduct regular security audits on big data service;
\par possess compliance analysis technologies and tools for audit strategies and procedures based on audit data.
\par 8.4.4.2
\par Audit data generation
\par 8.4.4.2.1
\par General requirements
\par BDSPs shall:
\par formulate audit data record regulation, clarify audit data organizational structure and format;
\par clarify auditable events related to big data system actions, e.g., user login, account management, guest access, strategy change, privileged function authorization, service module update;
\par clarify auditable events related to big data service data activities, e.g., data collection, data access, data storage, data transfer, data processing, data maintain and data destruction;
\par ensure audit data record at least includes operation time, operation subject, operation type, operation object and operation results;
\par possess fine grained audit abilities for data operations and system service actions.
\par maintain dependable time mark for audit record.
\par Time granularity should satisfy audit requirements;
\par possess abilities of auditable event selection and examination;
\par regularly maintain data record policies, auditable events and audit record.
\par 8.4.4.2.2
\par Enhancement requirements
\par BDSPs should:
\par provide system interfaces for third party audit data access;
\par adopt cryptography technologies to ensure non repudiation of audit data.
\par 8.4.4.3
\par Audit data protection
\par 8.4.4.3.1
\par General requirements
\par BDSPs shall:
\par provide persistent massive audit data security storage management methods and mechanisms;
\par possess access authorization abilities for audit data, authorize audit data access authorities to specified audit administrators;
\par adopt security technologies or control measures to ensure authenticity of audit data;
\par provide an audit data archiving function, support audit data offline encryption storage methods and mechanisms;
\par provide management strategies and methods for audit data storage effectiveness, data compression, etc.;
\par enhance audit data access management, record all operations for audit data;
\par possess desensitization ability for exported audit data;
\par ensure effectiveness of stored audit record if audit storage is exhausted, invalidated or under attack.
\par 8.4.4.3.2
\par Enhancement requirements
\par BDSPs should:
\par possess remote disaster recovery and backup ability;
\par be able to provide evidence to prove authenticity and completeness of audit data provided.
\par 8.4.4.4
\par Audit analysis report
\par 8.4.4.4.1
\par General requirements
\par BDSPs shall:
\par formulate audit, analysis and report strategies and procedures for audit records;
\par examine and analyze audit records regularly, generate an audit analysis report;
\par distribute an analysis report to specified responsible staff in an organization, if any major security hazard or illegal behavior is discovered during audit, report to organization managers as soon as possible.
\par 8.4.4.4.2
\par Enhancement requirements
\par BDSPs should:
\par monitor and analyze auditable events in real time, to support monitoring of and response to suspicious actions;
\par possess correlation analysis abilities of audit records from different sources.
\par 
\par Bibliography
\par [b-ITU-T M.3030]
\par Recommendation ITU-T M.3030 (2002), Telecommunications markup language (tML) framework.
\par [b-ITU-T Y.3500]
\par Recommendation ITU-T Y.3500 (2014) | ISO/IEC 17788:2014, Information technology \endash  Cloud computing \endash  Overview and vocabulary.
\par [b-ISO/IEC 27000]
\par ISO/IEC 27000:2018, Information technology \endash  Security techniques \endash  Information security management systems \endash  Overview and vocabulary.
\par [b-NIST SP 800-30]
\par NIST Special Publication 800-30 (2012), Guide for conducting risk assessments.
\par ______________
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \f2\insrsid9967752 
\par }{\*\themedata 504b030414000600080000002100e9de0fbfff0000001c020000130000005b436f6e74656e745f54797065735d2e786d6cac91cb4ec3301045f748fc83e52d4a
9cb2400825e982c78ec7a27cc0c8992416c9d8b2a755fbf74cd25442a820166c2cd933f79e3be372bd1f07b5c3989ca74aaff2422b24eb1b475da5df374fd9ad
5689811a183c61a50f98f4babebc2837878049899a52a57be670674cb23d8e90721f90a4d2fa3802cb35762680fd800ecd7551dc18eb899138e3c943d7e503b6
b01d583deee5f99824e290b4ba3f364eac4a430883b3c092d4eca8f946c916422ecab927f52ea42b89a1cd59c254f919b0e85e6535d135a8de20f20b8c12c3b0
0c895fcf6720192de6bf3b9e89ecdbd6596cbcdd8eb28e7c365ecc4ec1ff1460f53fe813d3cc7f5b7f020000ffff0300504b030414000600080000002100a5d6
a7e7c0000000360100000b0000005f72656c732f2e72656c73848fcf6ac3300c87ef85bd83d17d51d2c31825762fa590432fa37d00e1287f68221bdb1bebdb4f
c7060abb0884a4eff7a93dfeae8bf9e194e720169aaa06c3e2433fcb68e1763dbf7f82c985a4a725085b787086a37bdbb55fbc50d1a33ccd311ba548b6309512
0f88d94fbc52ae4264d1c910d24a45db3462247fa791715fd71f989e19e0364cd3f51652d73760ae8fa8c9ffb3c330cc9e4fc17faf2ce545046e37944c69e462
a1a82fe353bd90a865aad41ed0b5b8f9d6fd010000ffff0300504b0304140006000800000021006b799616830000008a0000001c0000007468656d652f746865
6d652f7468656d654d616e616765722e786d6c0ccc4d0ac3201040e17da17790d93763bb284562b2cbaebbf600439c1a41c7a0d29fdbd7e5e38337cedf14d59b
4b0d592c9c070d8a65cd2e88b7f07c2ca71ba8da481cc52c6ce1c715e6e97818c9b48d13df49c873517d23d59085adb5dd20d6b52bd521ef2cdd5eb9246a3d8b
4757e8d3f729e245eb2b260a0238fd010000ffff0300504b03041400060008000000210007b740aaca0600008f1a0000160000007468656d652f7468656d652f
7468656d65312e786d6cec595b8bdb46147e2ff43f08bd3bbe49be2cf1065bb69336bb49889d943cceda636bb2238dd18c776342a0244f7d2914d2d28706fad6
87521a68a0a12ffd310b1bdaf447f4cc489667ec71f6420aa1640d8b34face996fce39face48ba7aed51449d239c70c2e2965bbe52721d1c8fd898c4d3967b6f
d82f345c870b148f1165316eb90bccdd6bbb9f7e7215ed881047d801fb98efa0961b0a31db2916f9088611bfc26638866b13964448c069322d8e13740c7e235a
ac944ab5628448ec3a318ac0ededc9848cb033942edddda5f31e85d358703930a2c940bac68685c28e0fcb12c1173ca089738468cb8579c6ec78881f09d7a188
0bb8d0724beacf2dee5e2da29dcc888a2db69a5d5ffd657699c1f8b0a2e64ca607f9a49ee77bb576ee5f01a8d8c4f5eabd5aaf96fb5300341ac14a532eba4fbf
d3ec74fd0cab81d2438bef6ebd5b2d1b78cd7f758373db973f03af40a97f6f03dfef07104503af4029dedfc07b5ebd1278065e81527c6d035f2fb5bb5eddc02b
5048497cb8812ef9b56ab05c6d0e99307ac30a6ffa5ebf5ec99caf50500d7975c929262c16db6a2d420f59d2078004522448ec88c50c4fd008aa3840941c24c4
d923d3100a6f8662c661b85429f54b55f82f7f9e3a5211413b1869d6921730e11b43928fc34709998996fb39787535c8e9ebd7274f5f9d3cfdfde4d9b393a7bf
66732b5786dd0d144f75bbb73f7df3cf8b2f9dbf7ffbf1edf36fd3a9d7f15cc7bff9e5ab377ffcf92ef7b0e255284ebf7bf9e6d5cbd3efbffeebe7e716efed04
1de8f0218930776ee163e72e8b608116fef820b998c5304444b768c7538e622467b1f8ef89d040df5a208a2cb80e36e3783f01a9b101afcf1f1a8407613217c4
e2f1661819c07dc6688725d628dc947369611ecee3a97df264aee3ee2274649b3b40b191e5de7c061a4b6c2e83101b34ef50140b34c531168ebcc60e31b6acee
0121465cf7c928619c4d84f380381d44ac21199203a39a56463748047959d80842be8dd8ecdf773a8cda56ddc5472612ee0d442de487981a61bc8ee602453697
4314513de07b48843692834532d2713d2e20d3534c99d31b63ce6d36b71358af96f49b2033f6b4efd345642213410e6d3ef710633ab2cb0e831045331b7640e2
50c77ec60fa144917387091b7c9f9977883c873ca0786bbaef136ca4fb6c35b8070aab535a1588bc324f2cb9bc8e9951bf83059d20aca4061a80a1eb1189cf14
f93579f7ff3b7907113dfde1856545ef47d2ed8e8d7c5c50ccdb09b1de4d37d6247c1b6e5db803968cc987afdb5d348fef60b855369bd747d9fe28dbeeff5eb6
b7ddcfef5fac57fa0cd22db7ade9765d6ddea3ad7bf709a174201614ef71b57de7d095c67d189476eab915e7cf72b3100ee59d0c1318b86982948d9330f10511
e1204433d8e3975de964ca33d753eecc1887adbf1ab6fa96783a8ff6d9387d642d97e5e3692a1e1c89d578c9cfc7e17143a4e85a7df51896bb576ca7ea717949
40da5e8484369949a26a21515f0eca20a98773089a85845ad97b61d1b4b06848f7cb546db0006a795660dbe4c066abe5fa1e9880113c55218ac7324f69aa97d9
55c97c9f99de164ca302600fb1ac8055a69b92ebd6e5c9d5a5a5768e4c1b24b4723349a8c8a81ec64334c65975cad1f3d0b868ae9bab941af46428d47c505a2b
1af5c6bb585c36d760b7ae0d34d69582c6ce71cbad557d2899119ab5dc093cfac3613483dae172bb8be814de9f8d4492def097519659c24517f1300db8129d54
0d222270e25012b55cb9fc3c0d34561aa2b8952b20081f2cb926c8ca87460e926e26194f267824f4b46b2332d2e929287caa15d6abcafcf26069c9e690ee4138
3e760ee83cb98ba0c4fc7a5906704c38bc012aa7d11c1378a5990bd9aafed61a5326bbfa3b455543e938a2b310651d4517f314aea43ca7a3cef2186867d99a21
a05a48b2467830950d560faad14df3ae9172d8da75cf369291d34473d5330d55915dd3ae62c60ccb36b016cbcb35798dd532c4a0697a874fa57b5d729b4bad5b
db27e45d02029ec7cfd275cfd110346aabc90c6a92f1a60c4bcdce46cddeb15ce019d4ced32434d5af2dddaec52def11d6e960f0529d1fecd6ab168626cb7da5
8ab4faf6a17f9e60070f413cbaf022784e0557a9848f0f09820dd140ed4952d9805be491c86e0d3872e60969b98f4b7edb0b2a7e502835fc5ec1ab7aa542c36f
570b6ddfaf967b7eb9d4ed549e4063116154f6d3ef2e7d780d4517d9d71735bef105265abe69bb32625191a92f2c45455c7d812957b67f81710888cee35aa5df
ac363bb542b3daee17bc6ea7516806b54ea15b0beadd7e37f01bcdfe13d7395260af5d0dbc5aaf51a89583a0e0d54a927ea359a87b954adbabb71b3daffd24db
c6c0ca53f9c86201e155bc76ff050000ffff0300504b0304140006000800000021000dd1909fb60000001b010000270000007468656d652f7468656d652f5f72
656c732f7468656d654d616e616765722e786d6c2e72656c73848f4d0ac2301484f78277086f6fd3ba109126dd88d0add40384e4350d363f2451eced0dae2c08
2e8761be9969bb979dc9136332de3168aa1a083ae995719ac16db8ec8e4052164e89d93b64b060828e6f37ed1567914b284d262452282e3198720e274a939cd0
8a54f980ae38a38f56e422a3a641c8bbd048f7757da0f19b017cc524bd62107bd5001996509affb3fd381a89672f1f165dfe514173d9850528a2c6cce0239baa
4c04ca5bbabac4df000000ffff0300504b01022d0014000600080000002100e9de0fbfff0000001c0200001300000000000000000000000000000000005b436f
6e74656e745f54797065735d2e786d6c504b01022d0014000600080000002100a5d6a7e7c0000000360100000b00000000000000000000000000300100005f72
656c732f2e72656c73504b01022d00140006000800000021006b799616830000008a0000001c00000000000000000000000000190200007468656d652f746865
6d652f7468656d654d616e616765722e786d6c504b01022d001400060008000000210007b740aaca0600008f1a00001600000000000000000000000000d60200
007468656d652f7468656d652f7468656d65312e786d6c504b01022d00140006000800000021000dd1909fb60000001b01000027000000000000000000000000
00d40900007468656d652f7468656d652f5f72656c732f7468656d654d616e616765722e786d6c2e72656c73504b050600000000050005005d010000cf0a00000000}
{\*\colorschememapping 3c3f786d6c2076657273696f6e3d22312e302220656e636f64696e673d225554462d3822207374616e64616c6f6e653d22796573223f3e0d0a3c613a636c724d
617020786d6c6e733a613d22687474703a2f2f736368656d61732e6f70656e786d6c666f726d6174732e6f72672f64726177696e676d6c2f323030362f6d6169
6e22206267313d226c743122207478313d22646b3122206267323d226c743222207478323d22646b322220616363656e74313d22616363656e74312220616363
656e74323d22616363656e74322220616363656e74333d22616363656e74332220616363656e74343d22616363656e74342220616363656e74353d22616363656e74352220616363656e74363d22616363656e74362220686c696e6b3d22686c696e6b2220666f6c486c696e6b3d22666f6c486c696e6b222f3e}
{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax371\lsdlockeddef0\lsdsemihiddendef0\lsdunhideuseddef0\lsdqformatdef0\lsdprioritydef99{\lsdlockedexcept \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority0 \lsdlocked0 Normal;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 1;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 4;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 5;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 6;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 7;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 8;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 9;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 1;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 4;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 5;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 6;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 7;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 8;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 9;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 3;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 4;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 5;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 6;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 7;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 8;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 9;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Normal Indent;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 footnote text;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 annotation text;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 header;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 footer;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index heading;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority35 \lsdlocked0 caption;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 table of figures;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 envelope address;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 envelope return;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 footnote reference;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 annotation reference;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 line number;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 page number;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 endnote reference;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 endnote text;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 table of authorities;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 macro;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 toa heading;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Bullet;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Number;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List 3;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List 4;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List 5;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Bullet 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Bullet 3;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Bullet 4;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Bullet 5;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Number 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Number 3;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Number 4;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Number 5;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority10 \lsdlocked0 Title;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Closing;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Signature;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority1 \lsdlocked0 Default Paragraph Font;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Body Text;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Body Text Indent;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Continue;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Continue 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Continue 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Continue 4;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Continue 5;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Message Header;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority11 \lsdlocked0 Subtitle;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Salutation;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Date;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Body Text First Indent;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Body Text First Indent 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Note Heading;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Body Text 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Body Text 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Body Text Indent 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Body Text Indent 3;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Block Text;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Hyperlink;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 FollowedHyperlink;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority22 \lsdlocked0 Strong;
\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority20 \lsdlocked0 Emphasis;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Document Map;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Plain Text;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 E-mail Signature;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Top of Form;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Bottom of Form;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Normal (Web);\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Acronym;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Address;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Cite;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Code;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Definition;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Keyboard;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Preformatted;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Sample;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Typewriter;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Variable;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Normal Table;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 annotation subject;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 No List;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Outline List 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Outline List 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Outline List 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Simple 1;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Simple 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Simple 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Classic 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Classic 2;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Classic 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Classic 4;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Colorful 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Colorful 2;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Colorful 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Columns 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Columns 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Columns 3;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Columns 4;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Columns 5;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid 2;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid 4;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid 5;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid 6;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid 7;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid 8;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table List 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table List 2;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table List 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table List 4;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table List 5;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table List 6;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table List 7;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table List 8;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table 3D effects 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table 3D effects 2;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table 3D effects 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Contemporary;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Elegant;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Professional;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Subtle 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Subtle 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Web 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Web 2;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Web 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Balloon Text;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Theme;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdlocked0 Placeholder Text;
\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority1 \lsdlocked0 No Spacing;\lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading;\lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List;\lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid;\lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1;\lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2;
\lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1;\lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2;\lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1;\lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2;\lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3;\lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List;
\lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading;\lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List;\lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid;\lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 1;\lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 1;
\lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 1;\lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 1;\lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 1;\lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdlocked0 Revision;
\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority34 \lsdlocked0 List Paragraph;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority29 \lsdlocked0 Quote;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority30 \lsdlocked0 Intense Quote;\lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 1;\lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 1;
\lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 1;\lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 1;\lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 1;\lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 1;\lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 1;
\lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 1;\lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 2;\lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 2;\lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 2;\lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 2;
\lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 2;\lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 2;\lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 2;\lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 2;\lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 2;
\lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 2;\lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 2;\lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 2;\lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 2;\lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 2;
\lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 3;\lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 3;\lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 3;\lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 3;\lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 3;
\lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 3;\lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 3;\lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 3;\lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 3;\lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 3;
\lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 3;\lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 3;\lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 3;\lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 3;\lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 4;
\lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 4;\lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 4;\lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 4;\lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 4;\lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 4;
\lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 4;\lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 4;\lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 4;\lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 4;\lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 4;
\lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 4;\lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 4;\lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 4;\lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 5;\lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 5;
\lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 5;\lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 5;\lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 5;\lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 5;\lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 5;
\lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 5;\lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 5;\lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 5;\lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 5;\lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 5;
\lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 5;\lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 5;\lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 6;\lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 6;\lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 6;
\lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 6;\lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 6;\lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 6;\lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 6;
\lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 6;\lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 6;\lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 6;\lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 6;\lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 6;
\lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 6;\lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 6;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority19 \lsdlocked0 Subtle Emphasis;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority21 \lsdlocked0 Intense Emphasis;
\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority31 \lsdlocked0 Subtle Reference;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority32 \lsdlocked0 Intense Reference;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority33 \lsdlocked0 Book Title;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority37 \lsdlocked0 Bibliography;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 TOC Heading;\lsdpriority41 \lsdlocked0 Plain Table 1;\lsdpriority42 \lsdlocked0 Plain Table 2;\lsdpriority43 \lsdlocked0 Plain Table 3;\lsdpriority44 \lsdlocked0 Plain Table 4;
\lsdpriority45 \lsdlocked0 Plain Table 5;\lsdpriority40 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table Light;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 1 Light;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 2;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 3;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 4;
\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 5 Dark;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 6 Colorful;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 7 Colorful;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 1 Light Accent 1;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 2 Accent 1;
\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 3 Accent 1;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 4 Accent 1;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 5 Dark Accent 1;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 6 Colorful Accent 1;
\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 7 Colorful Accent 1;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 1 Light Accent 2;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 2 Accent 2;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 3 Accent 2;
\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 4 Accent 2;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 5 Dark Accent 2;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 6 Colorful Accent 2;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 7 Colorful Accent 2;
\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 1 Light Accent 3;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 2 Accent 3;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 3 Accent 3;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 4 Accent 3;
\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 5 Dark Accent 3;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 6 Colorful Accent 3;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 7 Colorful Accent 3;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 1 Light Accent 4;
\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 2 Accent 4;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 3 Accent 4;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 4 Accent 4;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 5 Dark Accent 4;
\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 6 Colorful Accent 4;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 7 Colorful Accent 4;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 1 Light Accent 5;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 2 Accent 5;
\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 3 Accent 5;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 4 Accent 5;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 5 Dark Accent 5;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 6 Colorful Accent 5;
\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 7 Colorful Accent 5;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 1 Light Accent 6;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 2 Accent 6;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 3 Accent 6;
\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 4 Accent 6;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 5 Dark Accent 6;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 6 Colorful Accent 6;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 7 Colorful Accent 6;
\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 List Table 1 Light;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 List Table 2;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 List Table 3;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 List Table 4;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 List Table 5 Dark;
\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 List Table 6 Colorful;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 List Table 7 Colorful;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 List Table 1 Light Accent 1;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 List Table 2 Accent 1;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 List Table 3 Accent 1;
\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 List Table 4 Accent 1;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 List Table 5 Dark Accent 1;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 List Table 6 Colorful Accent 1;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 List Table 7 Colorful Accent 1;
\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 List Table 1 Light Accent 2;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 List Table 2 Accent 2;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 List Table 3 Accent 2;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 List Table 4 Accent 2;
\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 List Table 5 Dark Accent 2;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 List Table 6 Colorful Accent 2;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 List Table 7 Colorful Accent 2;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 List Table 1 Light Accent 3;
\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 List Table 2 Accent 3;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 List Table 3 Accent 3;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 List Table 4 Accent 3;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 List Table 5 Dark Accent 3;
\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 List Table 6 Colorful Accent 3;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 List Table 7 Colorful Accent 3;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 List Table 1 Light Accent 4;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 List Table 2 Accent 4;
\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 List Table 3 Accent 4;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 List Table 4 Accent 4;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 List Table 5 Dark Accent 4;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 List Table 6 Colorful Accent 4;
\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 List Table 7 Colorful Accent 4;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 List Table 1 Light Accent 5;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 List Table 2 Accent 5;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 List Table 3 Accent 5;
\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 List Table 4 Accent 5;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 List Table 5 Dark Accent 5;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 List Table 6 Colorful Accent 5;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 List Table 7 Colorful Accent 5;
\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 List Table 1 Light Accent 6;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 List Table 2 Accent 6;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 List Table 3 Accent 6;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 List Table 4 Accent 6;
\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 List Table 5 Dark Accent 6;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 List Table 6 Colorful Accent 6;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 List Table 7 Colorful Accent 6;}}{\*\datastore 010500000200000018000000
4d73786d6c322e534158584d4c5265616465722e362e3000000000000000000000060000
d0cf11e0a1b11ae1000000000000000000000000000000003e000300feff090006000000000000000000000001000000010000000000000000100000feffffff00000000feffffff0000000000000000ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
fffffffffffffffffdfffffffeffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff52006f006f007400200045006e00740072007900000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000016000500ffffffffffffffffffffffff0c6ad98892f1d411a65f0040963251e5000000000000000000000000e030
c6e4ccbed901feffffff00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000ffffffffffffffffffffffff00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000ffffffffffffffffffffffff0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000ffffffffffffffffffffffff000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000105000000000000}}